let's make a shepherd's pie so what is a
shepherd's pie well it's a cottage pie
that's instead of using ground beef it's
ground lamb you know it's just a meat
and potatoes kind of dish which is why I
like it and it's made with lamb which I
love lamb I realize that's not the most
popular cut of meat but or animal in any
way I happen to like it a lot
so anyway pans hot oil is hot now good
swirl I've got to undercut some onion
and half a cup of carrot cut up be
honest I got a little bit more than half
a cup of here
we're going to take your pool bit of
salt in here salt helps these vegetables
cook a little better
my vegetables are just starting to get a
little color on we're gonna do you're
going to throw two tablespoons of butter
in here two cloves of garlic
we're gonna put in two pounds of lamb
that I bought a couple days ago that's
brown it's still good fresh it's edible
I'm gonna kill anybody today anyway
we're gonna Brown this up a little bit
okay we've got our meat starting to
brown a little bit we want to go ahead
and I want to season the meat a little
bit of salt now the the stock that I'm
using today is the homemade stock and
there's no I didn't put any salt than
that so if you're using a store-bought
stock it has lots of salt in it you may
not want to put any salt in there I'm
gonna put a little black pepper
now herbs you can kind of use whatever
whatever you liked I mean I want to put
about a tablespoon of Italian seasoning
because it has a nice mix anyway there's
half a tablespoon there's one tablespoon
and then we're gonna Brown this meat up
all right we've got a little color on
our meat now we're gonna mix that up a
little bit what we're gonna do now is
I've got two tablespoons of flour we're
gonna dump this in we're gonna mix it up
and we're gonna put a little color on
this and then what this is gonna do is
help thicken our sauce or block or
whatever you want to call it anyway let
me get this browned up a little bit all
right we've got that makes the nco I've
got some Brown in happen in the bottom
of my pan I got two cups of a lamb broth
or stock I'm gonna put this in and we're
gonna cook this down okay I've got a
heat turn down so just send me along
come around once in a while scrape the
bottom any that way you scrape up any
Brown bits on the bottom because that's
really good stuff you want that in in
here we're just gonna cook this down
till it's a really really thick
all right so now our mixture sticking it
up it looks really good so go ahead turn
this off does I have half a cup of
frozen peas put them in there
little stir kind of blend them in
oh by the way I have my oven preheating
at 350 degrees F it's not quite there
yet but it's getting there now going to
assemble yes
dish now you can use any kind of oven
safe dish that you want to use it really
doesn't matter
sure get some juice in there
just about halfway up my dish
good now I've got plenty left over but
what you can do is you can make one to
cook now make another one and then you
can actually wrap it up and freeze it
potatoes
he's just leftover mashed potatoes for
the mashed potatoes I took them boiled
some potatoes so they were nice and soft
mashing some butter and cream
spread this out a little bit
it's like putting in sheetrock
it tastes a lot better
you want to make sure that you have a
little bit of room at the top because
you're going to have liquid bubbling up
through there
now I want to make some ridges before
so increase the surface area the
potatoes and help them Brown up and then
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pop this
in the oven until the top is nice and
brown and bubbly all right so let's take
it out of the oven
oh man it looks good now I'm gonna let
it sit there and cool down before I cut
into it and I'm gonna go ahead and take
a paper towel just because I'm extremely
health-conscious
dab up some of this grease off the top
of it you don't really have to eat
that looks good and smells really good
see how it tastes